Level 2 {
Mesozoic Era, Level 2


Stepping out of the time machine, expecting to have only traveled one week backwards, Daxton, Octavia, and Professor Javier find themselves centuries in the past. They find themselves so far back in time, that they are in the Mesozoic Era. 
Behind the team is a large pit of mud surrounded by tall juglan trees and Professor Javier thinks he recognizes the tree as J. leconteana and tells Daxton that even if it looks like the tree produces walnuts that he should not eat them. To which Daxton sighs, disappointed he has to miss out on the chance to get some prehistoric protein. Octavia encourages him to eat it anyways, to which she gets a disappointed glare from Professor Javier. The trees that may be seen in the far distance could be the tall trunk of the Redwood or a slim palm tree. 
Monkey-puzzle bushes can be seen by a small creek surrounded by tall grass. The clear blue sky can be seen for miles as it stretches across the prehistoric sky. Sitting on a branch is a Didelphodon, an early mammal that may have been an ancestor to modern opossums. Sitting by the mud pit the team spots a Leidyosuchus. Octavia excitedly points out, they are not a dinosaur, but an extinct crocodilian; however, dinosaurs and crocodillians are related because they are both archosaurs! Crocodilians existed during the age of dinosaurs, and managed to survive the extinction at the end of the Cretaceous period. Of course, they are still alive in the 21st century. 
A group of ornithomimus grazes near the trees. Ornithomimus are omnivorous dinosaurs that resemble ostriches and most likely behaved like ostriches too, living in groups and being able to run at fast speeds, almost 43 miles per hour.
research seems to show that the t-rex had a bite force of 35,000 Newtons.
Daxton points out an Edmontosaurus slowly sinking into the mud – stuck in the pit being stalked by a T-Rex, only a short distance away. Edmontosaurus was often hunted by T-rex. Edmontosaurus was a social herbivore living in herds, but this one seemed to have been separated or left behind when it got trapped in the pit. The bright orange, a fleshy crest on its head, usually used by the Edmontosaurus for communication, could still be seen above the mud as its breen body began to sink deeper, the darker green stripes on its back slowly becoming one with the ravenous mud. Everyone backs away slowly, not wanting to become prey themselves. Suddenly, Daxton stops in his tracks and looks at the time machine then turns his attention back to the dinosaur in the mud. Javier encourages Daxton to continue safely back to the time machine, and he refuses to leave until they save the Edmontosaurus in the mud. Despite discouragement from Octavia, Javier eventually agrees with Daxton that saving the dinosaur is the right thing to do. GOST suggests that he can create a hologram of a Dinosaur to lure the T-Rex away based on a scan it could make of all the dinosaurs around them. It’s up to the team to make sure they create a hologram of the right dinosaur to make sure the T-Rex is properly distracted.
The team hurries to explore the surrounding area for the right dinosaur for GOST to scan for the hologram. They find lots of dinosaurs as they travel down a river, following its quick moving current. They spot triceratops. Edmontosaurus and Triceratops are some of the main prey animals for T-Rex. And the crew grabs a scan of it just in case. However, professor Javier points out that triceratops behavior is not fully understood, even in their own time and they hardly had time to sit and observe for themselves. He does say that the triceratops clearly grazed on vegetation that was too tough for animals in other niches of the environment to consume. But, Javier says that fossil evidence has been discovered that suggests that on occasion a triceratops could battle a T-Rex and survive. Meaning the T-Rex may not go after it if an easier meal is available. They also spot a Pachycephalosaurus, but Daxton points out that they like to headbutt each other with their 9 inch thick skills, topped with a spiked dome. On one of the tall branches of the tree is a Quetzalcoatlus. Quetzalcoatlus are the largest known pterosaur and the largest known animal to ever fly, and while their feeding habits remain largely unknown it is assumed they may have eaten small dinosaurs or arthropods, and carrion. A flying meal is not an easy one to catch for the t-rex and might not make a good distraction. Octavia spots a bird known as an Avisaurus. Birds were the only type of dinosaur that did not go extinct at the end of the mesozoic era.
After a little more exploration about the wildlife around them, the team decides that making a hologram of Edmontosaurus will most likely be the best option to divert the T-Rex long enough to pull off this rescue!


GOST is able to use his holographic projection abilities to perfectly recreate an Edmontosaurus and the T-Rex’ attention turns to the hologram. The predator is distracted for long enough that the crew can help the trapped Edmontosaurus get free. With the frustrated T-Rex deterred from the area and off to search for its next meal, the team is finally able to enjoy the magnificent landscape around them, before hopping back in the time machine to hopefully go back to their own era.


1. What sort of dinosaur is stuck in the mud? It is a Pachycephalosaurus, a dinosaur known for headbutting like modern rams.
2. What are the dinosaurs that are fighting? Pachycephalosaurus
3. What are the dinosaurs that are headbutting? Pachycephalosaurus
4. Why does the Pachycephalosaurus have a thick dome-head? Pachycephalosaurus possess this thick skull for headbutting each other.
5. What are the dinosaurs that look like ostriches? They are Ornithomimus. Not only do these omnivorous dinosaurs look like ostriches, but they behave a lot like them too, living in groups and running at great speeds from danger.
6. What kind of crocodile is that? It is a Leidyosuchus, a prehistoric crocodilian.
7. Can I play in the mud? Don’t. The Pachycephalosaurus got stuck in the mud, and you likely will as well.
8. What’s that awful smell? Considering the ecosystem around us, it’s likely dinosaur droppings.
9. What’s that little rat-like thing? That’s a Didelphodon, an ancient ancestor of modern opossums.
10. What is the small mammal? That’s a Didelphodon, an ancient ancestor of modern opossums.
11. What is the weird, colorful, goose-like thing? That’s an Anzu, an omnivorous dinosaur closely related to birds that eats vegetation as well as small animals. It even eats eggs and hatchlings of other dinosaurs.
12. What is the dark bluish bird with teeth? That’s an Avisaurus. Avisaurus is a true prehistoric bird. Birds are, in fact, dinosaurs, and are the only dinosaurs to survive the extinction at the end of the Cretaceous.
13. What is the giant, dull-colored dinosaur staring at the dinosaur in the mud? That is a Tyrannosaurus Rex. The T-Rex is the apex predator of this habitat and possesses a bite force of about 35,000 newtons.
14. What is the giant, dull-colored dinosaur staring at the Pachycephalosaurus? That is a Tyrannosaurus Rex. The T-Rex is the apex predator of this habitat and possesses a bite force of about 35,000 newtons.
15. What are the giant dinosaurs with the blue crests? That’s a herd of Edmontosaurus. Edmontosaurus is a large, social, and seemingly gentle herbivore.
16. What dinosaurs did the T-Rex eat? T-Rex is a carnivore. It is an equal-opportunity hunter and scavenger. It hunts large herbivorous dinosaurs like Triceratops and Edmontosaurus.
17. What is the dinosaur with three horns? That is a Triceratops. It is a giant herbivorous dinosaur.
18. Is Triceratops an easy meal for a T-Rex? Probably not.The Triceratops has three horns on its head that could damage the T-Rex.
19. Is Edmontosaurus an easy meal for a T-Rex? Most likely. Edmontosaurus doesn’t have any defenses other than running away from danger. It is probably an easy target to a T-Rex
20. Why does Avisaurus have teeth instead of a beak? During the age of dinosaurs, there were many birds that had toothed snouts instead of beaks. However, birds with beaks were the only ones that survived the extinction at the end of the Cretaceous.
21. Tell me a dinosaur joke! What do you call an upside-down dinosaur? A Tricerabottoms!
22. Is that creature a mouse in the bottom corner? No, that creature appears to be a Didelphodon and is likely an early relative of the opossum, research suggests. 
23. Can we let the dinosaur in the mud die? NO
24. What did T-Rex eat? T-Rex was both a scavenger and a hunter, preying on both Triceratops and Edmontosaurus, as well as other Hadrosauridae dinosaurs. It would also scavenge a dead corpse if available.
25. Are triceratops hostile? No, but they are territorial, and weigh about 15000 pounds on average. Max speed was 20 mph, therefore using Newton’s second law f=ma a Triceratops could exert up to 3401.5   of force, which is easily enough to kill a human Basically, do not get close. I will say it again, do not get close. 
26. What is Grade 5 Titanium? Grade 5 Titanium has excellent strength to mass ratio as well superb corrosion resistance.
27. Will a dinosaur potentially destroy or damage the time machine? No, the time machine was reinforced Grade 5 Titanium, which has made it strong enough to withstand hits from a dinosaur.
28. Can you scan a creature from a distance? Nope, my sensors are not that strong. The creature would need to be fairly docile to let me get close enough to scan it.
29. Will the T-Rex eat us? That T-Rex weighs roughly 102 times the average adult male’s weight. It most likely looks at us like one might look at a squirrel. Ultimately, the answer is most likely no, so it is best to stay away.
30. What is the Mesozoic Era? The Mesozoic Era, also known as the Age of Reptiles, is a geological era that spanned from about 252 million to 66 million years ago.
31. What were the three periods within the Mesozoic Era? The Mesozoic Era consisted of three periods: the Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous.
32. What was the climate like during the Mesozoic Era? The climate during the Mesozoic Era was generally warmer than today, with some fluctuations. The early period was relatively arid, while the later period saw more humid conditions.
33. What major events occurred during the Mesozoic Era?
The rise of dinosaurs, the evolution of mammals, the breakup of the supercontinent Pangaea, and the eventual extinction of the non-avian dinosaurs were some of the major events.
   34. What were some of the prominent dinosaur species during the Mesozoic Era?
Dinosaurs like Tyrannosaurus rex, Triceratops, Velociraptor, and Brachiosaurus were among the notable species of the Mesozoic Era.
   35. How did the Mesozoic flora differ from today's vegetation? The Mesozoic flora included various types of ferns, cycads, and conifers. Flowering plants were also present, although they became more diverse in the later periods.
   36. What were some of the key geological features of the Mesozoic Era? During the Mesozoic Era, the Atlantic Ocean began to form as Pangaea broke apart, leading to the separation of continents as we know them today.
   37. What is the significance of the first birds during the Mesozoic Era? Birds evolved from theropod dinosaurs during the late Jurassic period, marking the origin of avian life.
   38. What led to the mass extinction event at the end of the Mesozoic Era? The Cretaceous-Paleogene (K-Pg) extinction event, often attributed to a meteor impact, led to the extinction of non-avian dinosaurs and many other species.
   39. How did mammals evolve during the Mesozoic Era? Mammals were present during the Mesozoic Era, but they were relatively small and lived in the shadow of the dominant dinosaurs.
   40. What marine life existed during the Mesozoic Era? Marine life included ammonites, ichthyosaurs, plesiosaurs, and other prehistoric marine reptiles, as well as various types of marine invertebrates.
   41. Did flowering plants exist during the Mesozoic Era? Yes, flowering plants, or angiosperms, began to appear during the early Cretaceous period and gradually diversified.
   42. What were some of the key adaptations of dinosaurs? Dinosaurs developed a wide range of adaptations, including bipedal and quadrupedal locomotion, herbivory, carnivory, and elaborate defensive structures.
   43. How did reptiles evolve during the Mesozoic Era? Reptiles diversified and adapted to various ecological niches, giving rise to a wide array of forms, from small lizards to massive marine reptiles.
   44. What was the significance of the Mesozoic flora in shaping ecosystems? The Mesozoic flora provided the foundation for terrestrial ecosystems, supporting the herbivorous and omnivorous animals of the time.
   45. What geological formations are associated with the Mesozoic Era? Notable geological formations from the Mesozoic Era include the Morrison Formation, known for its dinosaur fossils, and the Solnhofen Limestone, famous for preserving fossils with exceptional detail.
   46. How did the Mesozoic Era set the stage for the Cenozoic Era? The Mesozoic Era's mass extinction event allowed for the diversification of mammals and the eventual rise of mammals as dominant land animals in the Cenozoic Era.
   47. What is the legacy of the Mesozoic Era in modern ecosystems? The Mesozoic Era laid the foundation for modern ecosystems by shaping the evolution of key plant and animal groups that continue to influence the natural world today.
   48. What were some of the factors driving the evolution of dinosaurs during the Mesozoic Era? Environmental changes, including the breakup of continents, fluctuations in sea levels, and shifts in climate, played a role in driving the evolution and diversification of dinosaurs.
   49. How do scientists study the Mesozoic Era? Scientists study the Mesozoic Era through the examination of fossil evidence, geological formations, and comparative analyses of modern species to reconstruct the ancient ecosystems and organisms that existed during that time.
}