Level 3{ 
Ruined city 27th Century, Level 3: Post-Apocalypse

After managing to escape the Mesozoic Era, the bumbling team of scientists and their AI companion GOST, once again miss their target year and land too far in the future, it is the 27th century and they find themselves in the year 2697. The time machine still takes them to the same location in Serenica City, but they are surrounded by a post-apocalyptic landscape. The once bright, glowing city has now been reclaimed by nature – as the buildings slowly crumble, the plants and animals have begun to thrive and evolve. The tall trees soar as high as some of the old skyscrapers, with strong and sturdy branches borrowing through walls and shattering glass windows of old high-rises. Large lush canopies from the trees provide a home to many new species of animals that have been able to evolve to fill many of the niches left in the ecosystem when the human population disappeared. The team stands among the forest and looks around in amazement. Octavia’s eyes are widened with a sense of curiosity she rarely shows to the outside world, and even points out to Daxton that a few of the birds up in the branches look like Regal Pouch Birds, once bred and genetically modified to be pets, the birds now seem to be flourishing.
Regal Pouch Bird, known scientifically as Satisornis laetus, have become quite common in the forests that have grown in the abandoned cities. They spend their lives in the overgrown trees, mostly avoiding ground level. Regal Pouch Birds Feed mostly on insects. Males are adorned with long and colorful tail feathers as well as an inflatable pouch on the neck. These traits are used for display to ward off rivals and attract females. And upon a short visual assessment, Professor Javier tells the team they appear to be harmless.
Visible behind the crew is one of the few remaining primate species, Sprinting monkeys, or Velocipithecus fallax. The only primate species that continue to survive are the ones that are skilled at climbing, running, and hiding. This has given rise to the Sprinting Monkeys of the treetops, who live in perpetual fear of danger. They have evolved to be quite timid, dashing away from any potential threats or predators. They themselves are opportunistic omnivores, feeding mostly on fruits and nuts from trees, but will go for carrion if given the rare chance. After accidentally scaring one off Daxton’s cheeks turn red and he turns back to Javier and Octavia and states that they must be harmless as well.
Hiding among the high tree branches Octavia spots a dentrosaurus, or Varanus dentrosaurus, Dentrosaurus is a large monitor lizard species capable of climbing trees. In fact, it has evolved to hunt in the trees to catch birds and monkeys. It has a relatively weak bite force of around 42 Newtons, but it makes up for this with the venom it produces, much like modern monitor lizards. Javier warns that it is aggressive and Octavia says that she likes that animal the best so far. Daxton takes a nervous step backwards, despite usually being excited to meet the new creatures he shies away at the mention of venom.
 Professor Javier tells the team that they must find a tachyon harmonizer, to help control and manipulate the tachyon particles in the machine’s core that move faster than light, and some quantum diodes, which will help direct the correct flow of electricity giving the team the ability to hopefully navigate time more accurately. Professor Javier explains that those new parts will work to fix the machine if they want to have any hope of making it back to their own time. Octavia is doubtful and frustrated by the malfunctioning time machine. The team explores the same streets they had when Serenica had been thriving, but now the streets resemble something of a forest and an ecosystem in which birds appear to be the dominant species in this post apocalyptic world where humans seem to be extinct.
They go to the overgrown Cybermart where they got most of the original time machine parts. The main shop has long been ravaged and reclaimed with nothing but a few empty, broken shelves and plants that have found places to grow. The group explores the other offices around the store. With the electricity long gone, the offices are dimly lit. With only light from the outside sun finding its way through cracks in the walls to light the way as the team explores, the scientists must carefully traverse the uneven floor as they search for the missing parts.  Unfortunately, the birds have hoarded all the shiny machine parts into one of the offices. All of the shining chromium and silver parts glisten in the faint light, tucked behind a door that is swung out, slightly ajar, on rusty hinges.  It seems the shadow hornbills have control of the horde, but there are also brain crows trying to steal the parts from the office. The team realizes that any hope they have of fixing the time machine relies on the ability to get those parts back from the birds.
Shadow hornbills, or Bucorvus nox, are a large species of ground hornbill that have become a stealthy predator. It could be argued that the only real difference between the Shadow Hornbill and its 21st Century relatives is its larger size and its diet of large animals. Shadow Hornbills mostly hunt at night, but will also lurk in shadowy locations during the day. It will scavenge any form of carrion, but it will only actively hunt down species smaller than itself. This includes smaller birds, small lizards, and monkeys. In the face of something the same size as or larger than itself, including another member of its own species, it will act highly territorial. It will defend itself and its territory with calls, pecks, and kicks. 
Brain Crows, or Corvus exypnos, are a large species of crow. Like crows of the 21st Century, Brain Crows are very intelligent, showing a high level of problem solving capabilities, even using makeshift tools. However, it seems they are growing more intelligent in the 27th Century, as their methods of crafting tools are slowly becoming more advanced and they are becoming even more social. They are difficult to find, as they spend much of their time hiding in the shadows of abandoned buildings for their own safety. Some seem to be defensive, some aggressive, some peaceful; they are often unpredictable.
 Octavia notes that the crow seems to be carrying some red residue on a stick but it isn't enough for GOST to scan and decipher what it is. The crew is surprised to see that the shadow hornbill and the brain crows are not hostile toward one another, or at least not in the moment. Javier says it is a strange observation because usually the extremely territorial hornbills would not allow the crows to be this close 
Daxton suggests the team goes out to explore and find out where the residue came from. In the Cybermart they find new, shiny personal transportation vehicles called Novascoots. These devices hum with solar powered electricity that allows the device to hover above the ground. Similar to 21st century scooters with a deck for the rider to stand on and handlebars to use as both steering and for balance. However, the Novascoot also combines the idea of the segway and uses the riders own body movement to create the forward momentum to move while using the handle bars to steer. The Novascoots glow a light blue while powered on and cast a slight glow on the ground around.  
The team explores the area and eventually they find the pond on the outer edges of Serenica city. The lake is surrounded by tall grass that rustles as the Novascoots navigate the terrain. There is lush shrubbery and tall trees, some of the trees that engulfed the city can still be seen from the pond. The pond is rich with vegetation and wildlife. From the sandy bank the player can see several different creatures than could be spotted in the Serenica City Forest.
Hanging above the pond from one of the sturdy branches is a Dog Bat, or Eumops magnus. This large bat species, descended from mastiff bats, spends its days fluttering from tree to tree, hanging from branches above a large deposit of the same red stuff found on the stick the crow was carrying. This is because the Dog Bat’s primary food source is, in fact, the red stuff. It appears that, because of the diet of the Dog Bats, the red stuff’s spread is beginning to become more controlled, and may eventually begin to decline. Daxton says these ones are cute and professor Javier confirms that they are passive. 
Slinking around just below the surface is a Potamisaurus, or Varanus potamisaurus. Potamisaurus is a large semi-aquatic monitor lizard species that lives in rivers and lakes. It possesses paddle-like limbs and a fluke-like tail, showing some convergence with the extinct Mosasaurus of the Mesozoic. It is an opportunistic carnivore, snatching up fish and small animals on the shore. However, it will also snatch partially dissolved carcasses from the red stuff, proving itself to be unopposed to scavenging meat as well. GOST can tell the crew that the creature is aggressive.
Crawling along the branches of the tree, the team can see Gore Ants, Solenopsis exercitus. Gore Ants are a species of fire ant that have grown relatively larger than their 21st Century ancestors. They prove to be very dangerous to any animal that is not quick enough to escape them, for waves of Gore Ants can easily overtake and pick apart larger animals. Alone, of course, they aren’t as dangerous. However, they still pack a burning bite. GOST can tell the crew they are potentially dangerous.
There is a strong metallic smell that fills the air, riding on the breeze into the nostrils of the explorers. Once the smell becomes too noxious to ignore, the team finally searches for its source. That is when Daxton points out there is also a large deposit of the same red stuff that the crow was carrying on the stick in Serenica City. There is now a large enough sample of the substance for GOST to do a full scan and tell the team it is a type of slime mold. After realizing that the red slime mold is the same substance that the crow had on the stick. When the player is exploring Slide 3, they can discover that if they bring back a sample of the red slime mold they may be able to get past the hornbill and get the parts they need to go home!


1. Why is the city abandoned? I am unsure. Perhaps humans left the planet.
2. What is this place? It appears to be the remains of Serenica City in the 27th Century. There seem to be no humans here anymore, and the city has become a wild ecosystem of  overgrown trees, abandoned buildings, and interesting animals.
3. Are those Regal Pouch Birds in the trees? Yes! It appears they have found a niche in this ecosystem.
4. Can we be friends with the Brain Crows? Maybe. They seem very smart, so perhaps they CAN be communicated with somehow. However, it may be more important to learn from them than to communicate for now.
5. What animals should we avoid? We should avoid the Shadow Hornbill, the Potamisaurus, and the Dentrosaurus. We should also avoid angering the Brain Crows.
6. Are there really no humans here? No signs of human life are present.
7. What is the most dangerous animal here? The Shadow Hornbill
8. What’s that bird with the crest in the shadows? That’s a Shadow Hornbill, a mostly nocturnal predatory bird.
9. What’s behind that door? Those are mechanical parts! We can use those to fix the time machine, but only if we can drive the Shadow Hornbill away.
10. Why is the Shadow Hornbill guarding the mechanical parts? It seems that Shadow Hornbills gather shiny objects to build their nests. In this case, this individual has used these parts to build its nest.
11. What is that creature in the water?  That is a Potamisaurus, a semi aquatic monitor lizard. I would advise that we avoid it since it IS a predator.
12. What does the Potamisaurus eat? Any form of meat it can find.
13. Is this Serenica City? Yes, this is Serenica City in the 27th Century. It appears no humans are here any more. I am unsure why.
14. Are there any intelligent lifeforms replacing humans? It seems the Brain Crows are becoming smarter and smarter and seem to be close to or even matching a human’s level of intelligence.
15. Are those trees growing into the buildings? Yes. It seems that in this untamed landscape, the city’s remains have become entangled by trees and other forms of flora.
16. Are there any primates left? It seems that primates are rather rare in the 27th Century. Only primates that are good at climbing, running, and hiding such as the Sprinting Monkey seem to survive here. 
17. Can any of these animals be domesticated? I am unsure about some species here, but considering that the Regal Pouch Birds were genetically engineered to be pets, they could likely be domesticated again.
18. Are the Gore Ants dangerous? If there are a LOT of them and you don’t swat them away, then they could be.
19. What does a Gore Ant bite feel like? It feels like burning.
20. Could I eat any of these creatures? It might be possible, but please do not interfere with the ecosystem.
21. Where are we? My internal clock tells me that we are in the 27th century,specifically, some time after the fall of the human race, it appears, due to there being no humans around.
22. What is that meat from? That is not meat, it is actually slime mold. 
23. Is it safe to get the slime mold? Yes, neither creature appears particularly hungry.
}